Sync with ballerina 0.990.3 (#13)
wso2-ballerina/module-amazonec2: amazonec2/Module.md

   * Desired Server region.

You can now enter the credentials in the Amazon EC2 client config:

```ballerina
amazonec2:AmazonEC2Configuration amazonec2Config = {
    accessKeyId: "",
    secretAccessKey: "",
    region: ""
};

amazonec2:Client amazonEC2Client = new(amazonec2Config);
```

The `runInstances` remote function launches the specified number of instances using an AMI for which you have permissions.
You can specify the maximum number of instances to launch and the minimum number of instances to launch.

   `var runInstancesResponse = amazonEC2Client->runInstances(imgId, maxCount, minCount);`

> If the instance started successfully, the response from the `runInstances` function is a `EC2Instance` array with one or more launched instance ids.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the instance started successfully, the response from the `runInstances` function is a `EC2Instance` array with one or more launched instance IDs.
```

> If the instance started successfully, the response from the `runInstances` function is a `EC2Instance` array with one or more launched instance ids.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the instance started successfully, the response from the `runInstances` remote function is an `EC2Instance` array representing one or more launched instance(s).
```

If it is unsuccessful, the response is an `error`.

```ballerina
if (runInstancesResponse is amazonec2:EC2Instance[]) {

>     io:println("Successfully run the instance: ", runInstancesResponse);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    io:println("Successfully ran instances: ", runInstancesResponse);
```

} else {
    io:println("Error: ", runInstancesResponse.detail().message);
}
```

> The `describeInstances` remote function describes one or more of your instances. It returns a `EC2Instance` array with reservation ids if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `describeInstances` remote function describes one or more of your instances. It returns an `EC2Instance` array with reservation IDs if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

> The `describeInstances` remote function describes one or more of your instances. It returns a `EC2Instance` array with reservation ids if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `describeInstances` remote function describes one or more of your instances. It returns an `EC2Instance` array with reservation ids if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

```ballerina

> var describeInstances = amazonEC2Client->describeInstances("ami-0ba4ce8cbsffd4e6333");

Reviewer 2: same comment re: identifier.

Reviewer 2: And replacement for "Successfully described the instance: "

if (describeInstances is amazonec2:EC2Instance[]) {
    io:println("Successfully described the instance: ", describeInstances);
} else {
    io:println("Error: ", describeInstances.detail().message);
}
```

> The `terminateInstances` remote function shuts down one or more instances. It returns a `EC2Instance` array with terminated instance ids if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `terminateInstances` remote function shuts down one or more instances. It returns an `EC2Instance` array with terminated instance IDs if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

> The `terminateInstances` remote function shuts down one or more instances. It returns a `EC2Instance` array with terminated instance ids if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `terminateInstances` remote function shuts down one or more instances. It returns an `EC2Instance` array with terminated instance ids if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

```ballerina

> var terminated = amazonEC2Client->terminateInstances("ami-0ba4ce8cbsffd4e6333");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
var terminationResponse = amazonEC2Client->terminateInstances("ami-0ba4ce8cbsffd4e6333");
```

if (terminationResponse is amazonec2:EC2Instance[]) {

>     io:println("Successfully terminated the instance: ", terminationResponse);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    io:println("Successfully terminated instance(s): ", terminationResponse);
```

} else {
    io:println("Error: ", terminated.detail().message);
}
```

> The `createImage` remote function will create an image. It returns a `Image` object with created image id if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `createImage` remote function will create an image. It returns an `Image` object with created image ID if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

> The `createImage` remote function will create an image. It returns a `Image` object with created image id if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `createImage` remote function will create an image. It returns an `Image` object with the created image id if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

    io:println("Successfully created a new image: ", newImage);
} else {
    io:println("Error: ", newImage.detail().message);
}
```

The `describeImages` remote function will describe the images. It returns an `Image` array with image details if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

```ballerina
var describeImageResponse = amazonEC2Client->describeImages("ami-0ba4ce8cb48ssfsfs");
if (describeImageResponse is amazonec2:Image[]) {
    io:println("Successfully described the image: ", describeImageResponse);
} else {
    io:println("Error: ", describeImageResponse.detail().message);
}
```

The `describeImageAttribute` remote function will describe an image with specified attributes. It returns an `ImageAttribute` object based on the attribute name if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

```ballerina
var imageAttributeResponse = amazonEC2Client->describeImageAttribute("ami-0ba4ce8cb48ssfsfs", "Description of Image");
if (imageAttributeResponse is amazonec2:ImageAttribute) {
    io:println("Successfully described an image with an attribute: ", imageAttributeResponse);
} else {
    io:println("Error: ", imageAttributeResponse.detail().message);
}
```

> The `deRegisterImage` remote function will de registers the specified AMI. After you deregister an AMI, it can't be used to launch new instances. However, it doesn't affect any instances that you've already launched from the AMI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `deRegisterImage` remote function will deregister the specified AMI. After you deregister an AMI, it cannot be used to launch new instances. However, it doesn't affect any instances that you've already launched from the AMI.
```

We might also have to rename this  function as `deregisterImage`. Can you please create an issue to track this?

Author: Done.

It returns true as a service response if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

```ballerina
var deRegisterImage = amazonEC2Client->deRegisterImage("ami-0ba4ce8cb48ssfsfs");
if (deRegisterImage is amazonec2:EC2ServiceResponse) {

>     io:println("Successfully de registered the image: ", deRegisterImage);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    io:println("Successfully deregistered the image: ", deRegisterImage);
```

} else {
    io:println("Error: ", deRegisterImage.detail().message);
}
```

> The `copyImage` remote function will Initiates the copy of an AMI from the specified source region to the current region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `copyImage` remote function initiates the copying of an AMI from the specified source region to the current region.
```

>  It returns an `Image` object with copied image details if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 It returns an `Image` object with details of the copied image if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

```ballerina
var copyImage = amazonEC2Client->copyImage("Copy_Image", "ami-0ba423rr4gtcb48ssfsfs", "us-east-2");
if (copyImage is amazonec2:Image) {
    io:println("Successfully copied the image to the current region: ", copyImage);
} else {
    io:println("Error: ", copyImage.detail().message);
}
```

The `createVolume` remote function creates an EBS volume that can be attached to an instance in the same Availability Zone.

>  It returns `Volume` object with created volume details if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 It returns a `Volume` object with created volume details if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

```ballerina
var newVolume = amazonEC2Client->createVolume("us-west-2c", size = 8);
if (newVolume is amazonec2:Volume) {
    io:println("Successfully created a new volume: ", newVolume);
} else {
    io:println("Error: ", newVolume.detail().message);
}
```

The `attachVolume` remote function attaches an EBS volume to a running or stopped instance and exposes it to the instance with the specified device name.
 It returns an `AttachmentInfo` object with attachment details if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

```ballerina
var attachmentInfo = amazonEC2Client->attachVolume("/dev/sdh", "ami-0ba4ce8cssdfd4e6333", volumeId);
if (attachmentInfo is amazonec2:AttachmentInfo ) {

>     io:println("Successfully attaches volume: ", attachmentInfo);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    io:println("Successfully attached volume: ", attachmentInfo);
```

} else {
    io:println("Error: ", attachmentInfo.detail().message);
}
```

The `detachVolume` remote function detaches an EBS volume from an instance.

>  It returns an `AttachmentInfo` object with specified details if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 It returns an `AttachmentInfo` object with volume details if successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

```ballerina
var detachmentInfo = amazonEC2Client->detachVolume(volumeId);
if (detachmentInfo is amazonec2:AttachmentInfo) {

>     io:println("Successfully detach the volume: ", detachmentInfo);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    io:println("Successfully detached the volume: ", detachmentInfo);
```

} else {
    io:println("Error: ", detachmentInfo.detail().message);
}
```

> The `createSecurityGroup` remote function creates a security group. It returns `SecurityGroup` object with group id if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `createSecurityGroup` remote function creates a security group. It returns a `SecurityGroup` object with group id if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

```ballerina
var newSecurityGroup = amazonEC2Client->createSecurityGroup("New_ballerina_group", "Test Ballerina Group in AmazonEC2 instance");
if (newSecurityGroup is amazonec2:SecurityGroup) {
    io:println("Successfully created a new security group: ", newSecurityGroup);
} else {
     io:println("Error: ", newSecurityGroup.detail().message);
}

```

The `deleteSecurityGroup` remote function deletes a security group by specifying either the security group name or the security group ID.

> But group id is required for a non default VPC. It return true as an service response if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Group id is required for a non default VPC. It returns true as the response if it is successful or an `error` if unsuccessful.
```

```ballerina
var deleteSecurityGroupResponse = amazonEC2Client->deleteSecurityGroup(groupId = testGroupId);
if (deleteSecurityGroupResponse is amazonec2:EC2ServiceResponse) {

>     io:println("Successfully  delete the security group: ", deleteSecurityGroupResponse);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    io:println("Successfully deleted the security group: ", deleteSecurityGroupResponse);
```

} else {
    io:println("Error: ", deleteSecurityGroupResponse.detail().message);
}
```

## Example 1
```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/runtime;
import wso2/amazonec2;

amazonec2:AmazonEC2Configuration amazonec2Config = {
    accessKeyId: "",
    secretAccessKey: "",
    region: ""
};

amazonec2:Client amazonEC2Client = new(amazonec2Config);

public function main() {

    amazonec2:EC2Instance[] arr = [];
    string imageId = "ami-09b864fbe67479fbd";

    var newInstances = amazonEC2Client->runInstances(imageId, 1, 1);
    if (newInstances is amazonec2:EC2Instance[]) {

>         io:println("Successfully run the instance : ", newInstances);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        io:println("Successfully ran the instance : ", newInstances);
```

    string imageId = config:getAsString("IMAGE_ID");
    string sourceImageId = config:getAsString("SOURCE_IMAGE_ID");
    string sourceRegion = config:getAsString("SOURCE_REGION");
    string groupName = "Test Ballerina Group"; // Rename the group name if you wanted create a group with different name.
    string imageName = "Test Ballerina AMI"; // Rename the image name if you wanted create a AMI with different name.
    string deviceName = "/dev/sdh"; // The device name (for example, /dev/sdh or xvdh).

    amazonec2:EC2Instance[] arr;
    string testGroupId;
    string zoneName = "";
    string[] instIds = [];

    var newSecurityGroup = amazonEC2Client->createSecurityGroup(groupName, "Test Ballerina Group in AmazonEC2 instance");
    if (newSecurityGroup is amazonec2:SecurityGroup) {
        io:println("Successfully created a new security group: ", newSecurityGroup);
        testGroupId = untaint newSecurityGroup.groupId;
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", newSecurityGroup.detail().message);
    }

    var newInstances = amazonEC2Client->runInstances(imageId, 1, 1, securityGroupId = [testGroupId]);
    if (newInstances is amazonec2:EC2Instance[]) {

>         io:println("Successfully run the instance: ", newInstances);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        io:println("Successfully ran the instance: ", newInstances);
```

    }

    runtime:sleep(60000); // wait a bit until launch an instance.

    var describeInstances = amazonEC2Client->describeInstances(instIds[0]);
    if (describeInstances is amazonec2:EC2Instance[]) {
        io:println("Successfully described the instance: ", describeInstances);
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", describeInstances.detail().message);
    }

    var newImage = amazonEC2Client->createImage(instIds[0], imageName);
    string id = "";
    if (newImage is amazonec2:Image) {
        io:println("Successfully created a new image: ", newImage);
        id = newImage.imageId;
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", newImage.detail().message);
    }

    runtime:sleep(60000);// wait until the image creates.

    var deRegisterImage = amazonEC2Client->deRegisterImage(untaint id);
    if (deRegisterImage is amazonec2:EC2ServiceResponse) {
        io:println("Successfully de registered the image: ", deRegisterImage);
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", deRegisterImage.detail().message);
    }

    var describeImageResponse = amazonEC2Client->describeImages(imageId);
    if (describeImageResponse is amazonec2:Image[]) {

>         io:println(" Successfully described the image: ", describeImageResponse);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        io:println("Image description: ", describeImageResponse);
```

    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", describeImageResponse.detail().message);
    }

    var imageAttributeResponse = amazonEC2Client->describeImageAttribute(imageId, "description");
    if (imageAttributeResponse is amazonec2:ImageAttribute) {
        io:println("Successfully described an image with an attribute: ", imageAttributeResponse);
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", imageAttributeResponse.detail().message);
    }

    var copyImage = amazonEC2Client->copyImage("Copy_Image", sourceImageId, sourceRegion);
    if (copyImage is amazonec2:Image) {
        io:println("Successfully copy the image to the current region: ", copyImage);
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", copyImage.detail().message);
    }

    string volumeId = "";
    var newVolume = amazonEC2Client->createVolume(zoneName, size = 8);
    if (newVolume is amazonec2:Volume) {

>         io:println("Successfully create a new volume: ", newVolume);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        io:println("Successfully created a new volume: ", newVolume);
```

        volumeId = untaint newVolume.volumeId;
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", newVolume.detail().message);
    }

    runtime:sleep(60000);// wait for a bit before attaching to a new volume until it creates.

    var attachmentInfo = amazonEC2Client->attachVolume(deviceName, instIds[0], volumeId);
    if (attachmentInfo is amazonec2:AttachmentInfo) {

>         io:println("Successfully attaches volume: ", attachmentInfo);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        io:println("Successfully attached volume: ", attachmentInfo);
```

    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", attachmentInfo.detail().message);
    }

    runtime:sleep(60000); // wait for a bit before detaching the new volume until the attachment completes.

    var detachmentInfo = amazonEC2Client->detachVolume(volumeId);
    if (detachmentInfo is amazonec2:AttachmentInfo) {
        io:println("Successfully detached the volume: ", detachmentInfo);
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", detachmentInfo.detail().message);
    }

    var terminated = amazonEC2Client->terminateInstances(instIds[0]);
    if (terminated is amazonec2:EC2Instance[]) {

>         io:println("Successfully terminate the instance: ", terminated);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        io:println("Successfully terminated the instance: ", terminated);
```

        string instanceId = (terminated[0].id);
        io:println("Instance Id: ", instanceId);
    } else {
        io:println("Error: ", terminated.detail().message);
    }

    runtime:sleep(100000); // wait for a bit before delete security group until the instance get terminates

    var deleteSecurityGroupResponse = amazonEC2Client->deleteSecurityGroup(groupId = testGroupId);
    if (deleteSecurityGroupResponse is amazonec2:EC2ServiceResponse) {

>         io:println("Successfully  deleted the security group: ", deleteSecurityGroupResponse);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        io:println("Successfully deleted the security group: ", deleteSecurityGroupResponse);
```
